How people with Disabilities use Digital Technology.
Interaction - navigation and finding
When content is accessible,
people can navigate and find information
using different strategies and approaches
depending on their preferences,
skills and abilities.
Many people with cognitive
and learning disabilities
rely on clear layout and design
to find information on websites and apps.
This includes different ways
of navigating the content,
such as using hierarchical menus
as well as search functionality;
with visual orientation cues,
such as using background colors
to indicate different parts
of the content,
using unique headings,
and placing relevant information
in prominent areas.
It's also important to use
a consistent and predictable design.
While many of these are typically usability
aspects that affect people with
and without disabilities,
these situations often
affect people with disabilities to a greater extent.
For example,
people with low vision
who use screen magnification
also rely on visual orientation cues
to orient themselves and find information
on websites and apps.
And consistency predictability helps everyone.
For example,
people who are blind use screen readers
to scan the content structures,
such as headings,
links, and navigational menus
to get an overview and orient themselves.
Websites and apps with clear
and consistent headings,
labels and structures
make the content
more predictable and easier to navigate.
In addition,
people who are blind rely on mechanisms
to skip over blocks of content,
such as headings,
navigation bars,
or menus,
repeated within websites and apps.
They also rely on websites and apps to provide
clear instructions
and help users identify
and correct mistakes,
such as incorrect dates,
numbers and other input.
In addition,
people with physical disabilities
rely on consistent labels which allow browsers
to optionally remember previous entries.
This speeds up typing
because people can select previous entries,
for example, names and addresses.
You can help make technology
accessible to me.
Accessibility: it's about people.
For more information
from the Web Accessibility Initiative
on How People With Disabilities
Use Digital Technology
visit w3.org/WAI/people